The Joe Rogan experience . This business has always been weird like that.
No, that's why you're the king dude because you got outside of it,
but you're totally in it and they can't, they can't get you. They can't get you.
I, I, you know,
I'm piling up some stories here being in the matrix. I won't get into them,
but it's the same.
It's just the same old corporations.
Only know how to do business one way.
They pushed their advantage. They pushed their advantage.
They have their leverage and they want the biggest pie slice of the pie.
That's that's what the, a problem.
With that.
It's when they go beyond that and they just straight up steal or they stealing
from you, right. Everybody does every floor.
Every time you get in business with like corporate guys, this is how it works.
It's like the check, okay. We're in business to make money from them.
And then you get in business with them.
And then the check goes to the corporate guy,
and then you get your cut off of his checkbook. So right there,
I am immediately in a situation where there's no way I can steal from him,
but he can Rob me blind.
And can add a bunch of expenses on the things that front.
End load expenses to make it look like they're losing money and yeah.
To Hollywood accounting. Yeah, no, it's stealing it. Stealing is what it is.
They just call it Hollywood accounting, but it's not Hollywood accounting. It's,
it's corporate accounting. It scumbag accounting. That's just,
and it's how they do it. And they sleep at night and then they always ask, oh,
that's over in the accounting section of the building, not over here,
where me and my yacht are. I'm like artists friendly.
You know, I majored in liberal arts in college.
It was really interesting when podcasts started to take off,
they started to try to get in with the old model and weasel into
podcasts and buy pieces of podcasts. And like,
if you come on your deal.
Your deal is going to,
if you think the industry is going to sit back when they didn't get to wet their
beak on that thing, I'm going to tell every young comic,
when we get back to this is what they're going to do now is what the music
industry did. Well, they cited,
it started signing straight across the board deals.
They're going to get some young kid. Who's got no power in the business.
And it's just like, you know, we'll help you create a podcast. You know,
we signed with so-and-so blah, blah.
And what they're gonna do is they're gonna own the podcast.
The advertising money is going to go to them and they're going to Rob them blind
percent. They're going a hundred percent, 100% going to steal from them,
Rob them blind.
And then when they get audited and they get caught stealing,
they're going to label that kid, that young comic, difficult to work with,
meaning difficult to steal from that's it's already happening. Yeah. Uh.
I know guys who, young guys, I won't name any names,
but they've come out to me and go, Hey, um,
I'm signed to this management company. They want to sign me,
but they want a piece of my podcast.
Now they want a piece of this and they want it.
The reason there's no reason. Yeah. You got to tell people that you got to tell,
oh, I tell you, I tell people do not give up.
Anything. Don't give up anything don't ever. It's all.
You. So they're not going to do anything for you. They get,
what they're going to do is move the ball quicker. That first two years,
and then the rest all going to be you.
If you just hang in there and see and struggle a little bit like, Ugh, you.
Got to grind. You just gotta hang in there and keep going. I mean,
I got a lot of offers to buy half of the podcast or to buy P and I,
nothing, I wouldn't, I won't, I won't do it. I will, I'll never do it.
But then Spotify came along and they said, we'll give you a licensing deal.
So just put it on our network for three months, but you still own it. Like,
all right, when, and that's why we did it that way. But this,
this comic that I won't name, he was telling me that this management company,
they wanted to sign them. They wanted to own a piece of his podcast forever.
And I'm like, what is that?
Eventually it will become. Yeah,
because what they're going to look at it is they're going to make it,
like if you started a podcast while you were with this manager or Y with this
agent will be like back in the day when you booked a sitcom. Exactly.
And then if you left the agency of the manager throughout the lifetime of that
sitcom, you owed the commission to them.
But back then that you needed them to do that.
You don't need them for the podcast, but they're going to do that.
So then you're going to leave this manager and then for the rest of your life,
you're going to be paying this never-ending alimony. I mean, there'll be guys,
eventually they'll try to take 50, 60. I own your podcasts.
Managers will start.
Agents will start podcast networks because there's nobody regulating them to
not do that anymore. I got.
An offer just five years ago from a company that was a radio company.
They wanted 50% of the podcast. They were going to give me no money.
They want 50% of the podcast just to be associated with them. And they're like,
we're going to pull together all these advertisers and it's going to help your
revenue now, 50%.
So that's and they never deliver with what they say they're going to.
And then they come in and they just, they just, they got the thing. The.
Beautiful thing about podcasts is podcasts. All get big on word of mouth.
Like I've never advertised this podcast. I never did anything with it.
I never bought billboards or put ads up anywhere. It's just from word of mouth.
And the way other podcasts grow is people get on people's podcasts and they say,
Hey, you listen to bill Burr's podcast, Monday morning podcast, hilarious.
And then it just.
Grows.
I think it's the job of people making money in podcasting to let new podcasts
there's no,
do not sign those deals ever do not let the Fox into the henhouse
because they are going to Rob you blind and you don't need,
and I saw this documentary one time on this heavy metal band Advil, right?
Just crazy thing about this band that just was around forever and never quite
made it. And there was a, I think it was, I think it was that one.
It's one of those ones about an old, like metal band from the eighties.
And this guy said, like the truest ever,
when he was talking about the music business,
and this goes straight across podcasts, everything, he goes,
you're better to own something a hundred percent and only sell 20,000 copies
than you are to, uh, not own it at all and sell 20 million.
Like you're literally going to make more if you just sell 20, 20 crazy. Yeah,
no, the. And then another thing that they done, oh my God, dude.
Now the thing that they do is then that all the people that they lose on,
they dump that on you. Yes. Yes. Like I remember one time,
I forget what I was with this network.
And I had a CD that was already made.
I already made it and I just wanted them to put it out on their label and they,
and they wanted to own the CD. And I was like, no, I'm not, no,
I don't want you to own it. I just need you to, to, to like distributed.
I need you as a distributor. And the guy said to me, he goes, well, you know,
ownership, shouldn't be that big a deal for you. It should be about exposure.
And I said, all right, well, let me ask you this.
If ownership shouldn't be that big a deal to me,
why is it such a big deal to you? And he started like stammering.
And then he basically said, well, you know, we get in business with something.
He named a couple of the comics who CDs didn't sell and we have to recoup those
losses. It's like that. Ain't my fault. That's hilarious.
I could have told you not to sign that jerk off. What is your sound? My fault.
You didn't do the work. So that's the way
I had another one.
One time I signed with this is back when I made like CDs and I did one and I had
a 60, 40, you get, you know, I was getting 60 and they were getting 40,
but are 40 was off the gross.
Mine was off the net and all expenses for the album was on me. It's like,
I thought we were doing this together. Every thing, the artwork printing it,
all of that, all of those expenses came to me. And in the end that 60, 40,
60 net 40 gross, they made way more money than I did.
It's just how they knew like, oh, okay, well I'm getting $6 on every 10. Yeah.
Plus, but anything.
It's hilarious that they would come up to you and tell you that we did some
deals with some other comics.
You know, I get in business one time to make this TV show.
And the guys sends this, the bill for the whole thing. I shouldn't be saying it,
but this is a while ago. Right?
The guy was going to bill is 2,500 bucks a month to use this copier machine.
And then another, I don't know, 4,500 bucks to use his editing. It's like, dude,
we have both of those things. We don't need those.
Let's take that money and put it on the screen.
We're trying to get this thing to go. And the guy like he, oh,
it was the funniest ever. He goes like,
I'm insulted by those questions is something like that.
Which is my favorite thing ever. The, the, the offense, like the, uh,
what is the, like the, I dunno,
you're a thief and you actually have the audacity to be like taken
aback, like, like fanning yourself. Like, I can't believe you. It's such a,
it's like how many shows you charging 2,500 bucks a month to go, you know,
you use your copy machine. A lot.
Of money. That's rent for a nice apartment.
No thieves.
PV. She'd how much does it cost to use that copy machine? Really? First of all,
the copy machine probably doesn't even cost 2,500 bucks.
It's probably renting it,
probably rents it for a couple of hundred bucks a month. But even to buy a car,
he probably has nine shows paying 2,500 bucks a month from the guy heavy.
That's it a really big one, one.
Of those commercial grade copy machines, what does it cost? 10 grand. I mean,
how much could it cost?
I mean,
I think he's bought a couple of houses off of owning that copier machine.
And I just, I just love telling these,
because these are the things that you like, what's great about podcasts.
And you can say this, this is for every person out there who has a business.
And you know, there's that thing where you want to take it to the next level.
And then these, these guys come in and then they're all just like, yeah, well,
Hey, we're going to take a piece of it. And they take a big chunk out of it.
And what they do is their risk is all the way down here. Yours is up here.
And then somehow they just, I'm telling you, like, you're better.
You better to sell 20,000 copies on and a hundred percent than 20 million and
not own any of it because you're going to make more money.
That's just how the game is played. And those guys who steal from people,
they sleep very comfortably.
But it's also just podcasts.
Just the stress of dealing with other people's eliminated.
Just the stress of dealing with production, people down, it slows it down,
slow it down. It's awful. Yeah.
I mean the only thing spot Spotify has ever done so far is ask,
do you know who the first guests will be? And already I'm like, oh.
Yeah, they're going.
To be who they're going to be. You know, they're going to be great.
I'm going to try and get called best friend called the funniest people.
That's them justifying their desk. Like, I can't just sit here.
Like Joe knows what he is.
Any idea? Well, I'd like to start a.
Email chain and we could maybe circle back later and have a conference call.
And they're just trying to fill up there.
Yeah. Yeah. They're just having to use time. Yeah. But they have Spotify.
People have been great. They literally said we don't want to do anything.
We want you to just do what you're doing. Just do what you're doing. Oh.
But even asking me who the guests going to be, I was like, oh no,
please let this with you. Yeah. I'm never available.
And that's nothing though. That's nothing. I mean, they're great.
But could you imagine if you were doing that with a network where you imagine if
you were in business with ABC or something like that,
and there they were helping produce your podcast.
You'd have to go in for meetings. You'd have to go in and sign into the office.
Bill you sign in here and you'd go and sit down and waste your afternoon.
Having some dopey conversation.
You kind of complain a lot when you read these letters, bill, um,
do you have to, when people are signing the emails, maybe it should be.
Can we get a read on the blah, blah, blah.
Um, what do you think, how do you feel about product placement?
Because we've got a, got a great deal. Wow.
I just wanted to,
I just wanted to tell a few of those for younger people out there,
because it actually really bothers me that people do that to people.
It really bothers me and I love comics and I love seeing new comics coming up
that have talent. And I hate seeing them get over.
So hopefully people listen and they do it,
but they're worms, man.
If they're worried worms,
there's a lot of worms out there and there's a lot of worms to try to grab
comics real that they're talented, but real raw.
And they try to lock you up to some enormous lifetime management deal.
And when you take off and you have something to say, if you're good, I remember.
Back in the day, when everyone, when,
when companies were like shooting specials before comics started shooting them
and the amount of guys that got that, yeah.
We only got enough money for him to shoot one, you know, to only,
you can only shoot at one time, but you're going to crush it, man.
You got this hour down,
we only got enough in the budget and then they'd show up early and they'd be
shooting another comic special off their money.
The deal to double them as a management company,
what they would get or an agency, the amount of times that that happened with.
The same audience army. Yeah. Do you want me to be the best one I ever heard?
Jim brewer was filming a special sold out this theater and the,
the people that were filming the special told him that the money for the ticket
sales was theirs because it was all about the production
because the money that people were paying for the production,
he's like the are you talking about, this is my audience.
Like that's my money.
His management tried to steal the money from ticket sales and
say that it went towards production,
went all the way to court with it.
As managers on the way to court has a panic attack, goes to the hospital.
Like the whole thing's a nightmare.
I think she won.
He won boats, thievery, thievery. Like these are tick.
People are paying to see Jane. I have.
A million of those stores, but this is the thing.
This is what kills me about a lot of this
there's rhetoric. That's going on out there, which I agree with 90% of it.
But if you, if you agree with a hundred percent of it,
like you and I are not supposed to be having stories like this,
we're supposed to be the ones doing it. And it's just like,
you have to mean like, as far as the, uh, the whole, you know, oh,
you're a white male, heterosexual, you know,
doors just fly open and people like, Hey, what are your dream? They like,
I'm not saying, and I'm not obviously not, but I'm just saying that like,
like people will you. It's all about money. They talk about,
they don't give a. And they, and they, all those people that do that really?
Yeah. There's a long history of Hollywood.
Accounting. There's a long history of that. I mean,
there's been so many stories about people who made killer hit movies and never
got paid because Hollywood's like, look, you know,
we had this much had to go to advertising and this was the production got bad.
Elvis got. Oh yeah. Elvis.
Got so bad. And then one of the main ways he got on the road,
he only did one out of the country date. I believe he did Toronto.
And he never traveled the world because his manager had something going on with
his visa. And he was worried if he left, he wouldn't be able to come back.
So that kind of like, him, Elvis,
a ton of money and seeing the world or whatever the he might've wanted to do.
Keep doing these movies Elvis.
You want to go on the road. That is hilarious. Well, the, you know, the best.
Version of breaking down, how corrupt the music businesses was by Courtney love.
They said she had a ghost writer. I don't know, but she did, but it was, it's a,
it's a great article that she wrote exactly how
much you get paid versus how much money gets generated and where it all goes and
how they you.
Yeah, no, it's, it's.
I've always done it that way. I mean, that's always the way they've done it.
That's the young people. That's the answer.
To it as well. I mean, that's how, that's how it's done.